README.md, before:

# AI Chat 🤖💬  

AI Chat is a real-time chat application inspired by ChatGPT. Built using **HTML**, **CSS**, **JavaScript**, **Node.js**, **Express.js**, **Socket.io**, and the **Gemini AI API**, it delivers a seamless and interactive experience for users to communicate with an AI assistant.  


---

## Features 🌟  
- **Interactive UI**: User-friendly design for a smooth chat experience.  
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to various screen sizes, ensuring usability across devices.  
- **Light & Dark Modes**: Easily switch between modes for a personalized experience.  
- **Real-Time AI Chat**: Engage in meaningful, real-time conversations powered by AI.  

---

## Technology Stack 🛠️  
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
- **Backend**: Node.js, Express.js  
- **Real-Time Communication**: Socket.io  
- **AI API**: Gemini AI API  


---

## Screenshots


   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/2.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/3.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/1.PNG)



   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/4.PNG)


## 🚦 Getting Started

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/IAI-CHAT.git
cd AI-CHAT
# Make Sure Node JS Installed
npm init -y
npm install express socket.io @google/generative-ai
node app.js
```

---

Open your browser and go to `http://localhost:3000`.


Feel free to clone, contribute, or use this project as inspiration for your own real-time applications!

Commit message:

Added More Functionality, Suport Dual AI , Store all Prompts and Responce , More Responsive Design With Navbar , Optimized for Mobile Screen , Logout Function , Resister And Login Function , Access Chat History , And More, with Basic Animations

README.md, after:

# AI Chat 🤖💬  

A real-time AI-powered chat application built with  **HTML**, **CSS**, **JavaScript**, **Node.js**, **Express.js**, **Socket.io**, **OpenAI**, and the **Gemini AI API**, it delivers a seamless and interactive experience for users to communicate with an AI assistant.  


---

## Features 🌟  
- **Interactive UI:** Intuitive design for smooth and engaging user experience.
- **Responsiveness:** Fully responsive and optimized for mobile screens to ensure seamless use across all devices.
- **Light/Dark Mode:** Switch themes based on user preference.
- **Live Chat with AI:** Real-time conversation powered by AI models.
- **Dual AI Support:** Access OpenAI and Gemini AI models with a single click for versatile chat experiences.
- **User Authentication:** Register and log in to access personalized chat history.
- **Chat History Management:** Store and view past conversations for each user. 

---

## Technology Stack 🛠️  
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript  
- **Backend**: Node.js, Express.js  
- **Real-Time Communication**: Socket.io  
- **AI API**: Gemini AI API and OpenAI API


---

## Screenshots


   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/10.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/11.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/12.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/13.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/14.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/15.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/16.PNG)

   ![](https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/AI-CHAT/blob/main/public/images/17.PNG)






## 🚦 Getting Started

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vaibhav-katkar-dev/IAI-CHAT.git
cd AI-CHAT
# Make Sure Node JS Installed
npm init -y
npm install express socket.io @google/generative-ai openai
node app.js
```

---

Open your browser and go to `http://localhost:3000`.


Feel free to clone, contribute, or use this project as inspiration for your own real-time applications!
